chore(doc): Add using cloudinary plugin for images to reference guides. (#22798)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/using-cloudinary-image-service.md

Plugins are generally used to abstract functionality in Gatsby. In this case `gatsby-source-cloudinary` plugin is a [source plugin](/docs/creating-a-source-plugin/) which helps to connect Cloudinary media storage capabilities to your site.  

If you already have some images hosted on Cloudinary and would like to leverage on the plugin system of Gatsby this plugin is for you. 

> Here's a [demo site that uses the gatsby-source-cloudinary](https://gsc-sample.netlify.com) showcasing  optimized images in a masonry grid, served from Cloudinary

## The problem with handling images on the web

Dealing with images on the web has always been a problem as unoptimized images can slow down your site. The processes put in place to create the best media experience can take a lot of time to implement. 

## Solutions Cloudinary provides 

Cloudinary provides a couple of amazing solutions to this problem , namely: 
- Remote storage and delivery of images via CDN

> - Wider range of transformations over [gatsby-image](/docs/using-gatsby-image/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wider range of transformations over [gatsby-image](/docs/using-gatsby-image/).
```
What do we mean by over?

Author: The Cloudinary plugin offers a wider range of transformations than gatsby-images

Reviewer: I'd say that instead. I read over as using the two in combination allowed you to get more out of gatsby-image.

- [Digital Asset Management](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/digital_asset_management_overview) for enterprise assets 

## Gatsby-source-cloudinary

This plugin fetches media assets from Cloudinary that are specified in a folder. It then transforms these images into Cloudinary file nodes, which can be queried with GraphQL in a Gatsby project. 
`gatsby-source-cloudinary` applies [f_auto and q_auto](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/image_transformations) transformation parameters which aid in automatic optimisation of format and quality for media assets by over 70 percent.

### Prerequisites  

> Before using the `gatsby-source-cloudinary` you should do the following : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the `gatsby-source-cloudinary` plugin you should do the following: 
```

> - Upload the images to a folder on Cloudinary. This folder can have any name of your choosing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upload your images to a folder on Cloudinary. This folder can have any name of your choosing. 
```

- Obtain your API key and API secret from your Cloudinary dashboard.

> - Have [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) module installed for loading environment variables from a `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have the [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) module installed for loading environment variables from a `.env` file.
```

### Using gatsby-source-cloudinary

> Add the plugin to your project in these steps : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the plugin to your project.
```

1. Install `gatsby-source-cloudinary` 

```shell
  npm install gatsby-source-cloudinary
```
2. In the root of your project, create an environment file called `.env` and add your Cloudinary credentials and their values

```
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=xxxxx
```

3. Configure `gatsby-config.js`

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
require('dotenv').config(); // highlight-line
module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins:[
  ...
  {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
        resourceType: `image`,
        prefix: `gatsby-source-cloudinary/` 
      }
    }
  ]
} 
```

> > `gatsby-source-cloudinary` takes these options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `gatsby-source-cloudinary` takes the following options:
```

- **`cloudName`** , **`apiKey`** , and **`apiSecret`** **:** These are credentials from your Cloudinary console, stored as three separate environment variables for security.

> - **`resourceType`** **:** This is the resource type of the media assets: either an image or a video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`resourceType`** **:** This is the resource type of the media assets - either an image or a video.
```

> - **`prefix`** **:** This is the folder (in your Cloudinary account) in which the files reside. In the example above, I named this folder `gatsby-source-cloudinary` . Assign a name of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`prefix`** **:** This is the folder (in your Cloudinary account) in which the files reside. In the example above, the folder is called `gatsby-source-cloudinary`. Assign a name of your choice.
```

> Other optional options are `type`, `tags`, and `maxResult`.

Reviewer: Maybe link to the README if there is more context there?

> > The `info` log, which displays the Cloudinary Media nodes. Those images are ready to be queried in Gatsby components.

Reviewer: Not sure what the context for this statement is. Is this another option?

Author: I can take it out

## Gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

> After sourcing media files from Cloudinary, you will be able to leverage on Cloudinary’s media transformation capabilities you will make use of the `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` which is a type of [transformer plugin](/docs/creating-a-transformer-plugin/) that is used to change image formats , style and dimension. While also optimizes images for minimal file size alongside high visual quality for an improved user experience and minimal bandwidth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After sourcing media files from Cloudinary, you will be able to leverage Cloudinary’s media transformation capabilities. To do so,  use `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` which is a type of [transformer plugin](/docs/creating-a-transformer-plugin/) that is used to change image formats, styles and dimensions. It also optimizes images for minimal file size alongside high visual quality for an improved user experience and minimal bandwidth.
```
The last sentence is a bit confusing. Can we clarify?

Here's a [demo site that uses the gatsby-transformer-plugin](https://gatsby-transformer-cloudinary.netlify.com/fluid/)

> ### Using gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

Author: It's the same as the source plugin, with the addition of using the gatsby-source-cloudinary plugin. I didn't want to repeat it.

> ### Using gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

Reviewer: Given that they're under different headers I would repeat it. It gives people the ability to scan to one section or another. Alternatively, you could note it prior to introducing either plugin.

> ### Using gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

Author: I added a prereq section to this part.

1. Install `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` and  `gatsby-source-filesystem` which creates the File nodes that the Cloudinary transformer plugin works on. 

```shell

>  npm install --save gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-source-filesystem 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 npm install gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-source-filesystem 
```

```

> 2. In the root of your project, create an environment file called `.env` to which to add your Cloudinary credentials and their values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the root of your project, create an environment file called `.env` to which to add your Cloudinary credentials and their values.
```

---

> title: Using cloudinary image service for media optimization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Using Cloudinary image service for media optimization
```

---

> `Cloudinary` is a cloud-based end-to-end media management platform for many of the world’s top brands. With extensive product offerings from an Image management solution, Dynamic Video Platform, and a dynamic digital asset management solution.

Reviewer: Are all of these offerings relevant to Gatsby sites?

> `Cloudinary` is a cloud-based end-to-end media management platform for many of the world’s top brands. With extensive product offerings from an Image management solution, Dynamic Video Platform, and a dynamic digital asset management solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudinary is a cloud-based end-to-end media management platform for many of the world’s top brands. With extensive product offerings from an Image management solution, Dynamic Video Platform, and a dynamic digital asset management solution.
```

> As Plugins are at the heart of developing software with Gatsby and optimization is also really important in mordern app. The Cloudinary plugins aid in making sure media assets fit this need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As plugins are at the heart of developing software with Gatsby and optimization is also really important in mordern app. The Cloudinary plugins aid in making sure media assets fit this need.
```
This needs rewording. The first sentence is a bit confusing.

> In this guide you will take a look at the [gatsby-source-plugin](/packages/gatsby-source-cloudinary/) and [gatsby-transformer-cloudinary](/packages/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/) which can be used to improve the experience of handling images on Gatsby sites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide you will take a look at [gatsby-source-plugin](/packages/gatsby-source-cloudinary/) and [gatsby-transformer-cloudinary](/packages/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/) which can be used to improve the experience of handling images on Gatsby sites.
```

> Here's a [Demo site for source plugin](https://gsc-sample.netlify.com) showcasing optimized images in a masonry grid, served from [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a [demo site for source plugins](https://gsc-sample.netlify.com), showcasing optimized images in a masonry grid, served from [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com)
```

Reviewer: We should link to Cloudinary up top at first mention. Then we don't need to do it again.

> The `gatsby-source-plugin` is helpful if you already have some images hosted on `Cloudinary` and would like to leverage on the plugin system of Gatsby.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gatsby-source-plugin` is helpful if you already have some images hosted on Cloudinary and would like to leverage on the plugin system of Gatsby.
```

Reviewer: Can you explain what you mean? Is there another way to query this information? "like to leverage the plugin system" feels misleading. Perhaps it's more, if you'd like to access your images via Cloudinary.

## Problem

Dealing with images on the web have always been a problem as unoptimized images can slow down your site. The processes put in place to create the best media experience can take a lot of time to implement.

## Solutions

> Cloudinary provides a couple of amazing solutions to this problem by offering the following solutions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudinary provides a couple of amazing solutions to this problem, namely:
```

- Remote storage and delivery of images via CDN
- Wider range of transformations over [gatsby-image](/docs/using-gatsby-image/).
- [Digital Asset Management](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/digital_asset_management_overview) for enterprise assets

## Gatsby-Source-plugin

This plugin fetches media assets from Cloudinary that are specified in a folder. It then transforms these images into Cloudinary file nodes, which can be queried with GraphQL in a Gatsby project.

`gatsby-source-plugin` applies [f_auto and q_auto](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/image_transformations) transformation parameters which aid in automatic optimisation of format and quality for media assets by over 70 percent.

### Prerequisites

> There are a couple of things you would need to set up before using this plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Upload the images to a folder on Cloudinary. This folder can have any name of your choosing.
- Obtain your API key and API secret from your Cloudinary dashboard.
- [Dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) module installed for loading environment variables from a `.env` file.

### Usage

1. Install `gatsby-source-cloudinary`

```shell
  npm install gatsby-source-cloudinary
```

> 2. In the root of your project, create an environment file called `.env` to which to add your Cloudinary credentials and their values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the root of your project, create an environment file called `.env` and add your Cloudinary credentials and their values
```

```
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=xxxxx
```

3. Configure `gatsby-config.js`

```js:title=gatsby-config.js

> require('dotenv').config();

Reviewer: Highlight this line perhaps?

module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins:[
  ...
  {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
        resourceType: `image`,
        prefix: `gatsby-source-cloudinary/`
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> `gatsby-source-cloudinary` takes these options:

- **`cloudName`** , **`apiKey`** , and **`apiSecret`** **:** These are credentials from your Cloudinary console, stored as three separate environment variables for security.
- **`resourceType`** **:** This is the resource type of the media assets: either an image or a video.
- **`prefix`** **:** This is the folder (in your Cloudinary account) in which the files reside. In the example above, I named this folder `gatsby-source-cloudinary` . Assign a name of your choice.

Other optional options are `type`, `tags`, and `maxResult`.

> The `info` log, which displays the CloudinaryMedia nodes. Those images are ready to be queried in Gatsby components.

## Gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

> Here's a [Demo site for transformer plugin](https://gatsby-transformer-cloudinary.netlify.com/fluid/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a [demo site for transformer plugin](https://gatsby-transformer-cloudinary.netlify.com/fluid/)
```

- **`prefix`** **:** This is the folder (in your Cloudinary account) in which the files reside. In the example above, the folder is called `gatsby-source-cloudinary`. Assign a name of your choice.
  Other optional options are `type`, `tags`, and `maxResult`.

Here's a [link to the README](https://github.com/Chuloo/gatsby-source-cloudinary#query-parameters) for more information.

## Gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

After sourcing media files from Cloudinary, you will be able to leverage Cloudinary’s media transformation capabilities. To do so, use `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` which is a type of [transformer plugin](/docs/creating-a-transformer-plugin/) that is used to change image formats, styles and dimensions. It also optimizes images for minimal file size alongside high visual quality for an improved user experience and minimal bandwidth.

Here's a [demo site that uses the gatsby-transformer-plugin](https://gatsby-transformer-cloudinary.netlify.com/fluid/)

### Prerequisites

Before using the `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` plugin you should do the following:

- Upload your images to a folder on Cloudinary. This folder can have any name of your choosing.

> - Have the gatsby-source-cloudinary plugin to get images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have the `gatsby-source-cloudinary` plugin installed and configured.
```

### Using gatsby-transformer-cloudinary

1. Install `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` and `gatsby-source-filesystem` which creates the File nodes that the Cloudinary transformer plugin works on.

```shell
 npm install gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-source-filesystem
```

2. In the root of your project, create an environment file called `.env` to which to add your Cloudinary credentials and their values.

```
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=xxxxx
```

3. Configure `gatsby-config.js`

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
require('dotenv').config({
  path: `.env.${process.env.NODE_ENV}`,
});

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
      options: {
        name: `images`,
        path: `${__dirname}/src/images`,
      },
    },
    {
      resolve: 'gatsby-transformer-cloudinary',
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,

        // This folder will be created if it doesn’t exist.
        uploadFolder: 'gatsby-cloudinary',

    },
  ],
};
```

> > In `gatsby-config.js`, responsive breakpoints can be created for each image, use the fluidMaxWidth and fluidMinWidth options to set them.

Reviewer: Last outstanding question I have is whether we have a link for more information? (maybe the README?)

Author: Well, these parameters are just to show how to add responsive breakpoints there is no further information after that. I did, however, link the README from npm for context.

};
```

> > In `gatsby-config.js`, responsive breakpoints can be created for each image, use the fluidMaxWidth and fluidMinWidth options to set them. Here is a [link to the offical documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary#api) for more information on how these parameters can be set. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In `gatsby-config.js`, responsive breakpoints can be created for each image, use the fluidMaxWidth and fluidMinWidth options to set them. Take a look at the [plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary#api) for more information on how these parameters can be set. 
```
